# Partition_ADG_UVVIS_Distribution
---

The ADG partitioning model separates the non-phytoplankton absorption coefficient, a<sub>dg</sub>, into the chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM) absorption coefficient, a<sub>g</sub>(λ), and depigmented particulate absorption coefficient, a<sub>d</sub>. This model configuration utilizes the input of a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) specified over a particular wavelength range with a predefined library of spectral shape functions (The library is defined from 350 to 700 nm in 1 nm increments) to decompose a<sub>dg</sub>. The complete development and validation of the ADG partitioning model will be described in [Kehrli et al., (In Prep)]. The presented version of the ADG partitioning model source code is in MATLAB file format. In this version of the code, we introduced some changes with the primary purpose of streamlining the structure of the code to facilitate its application by users.

This README document provides information about the files within the Partition_ADG_UVVIS_Distribution repository.

---

## Partition_ADG_UVVIS.m:
ADG partitioning model to partition input a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) into a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ) using a predefined library of spectral shape function defined in the UVVIS. Returns output wavelength (lambda_out), a<sub>d</sub>(λ) (adopt), and a<sub>g</sub>(λ) (agopt). See supporting documentation for further details.

## Partition_ADG_UVVIS_Test.m:
MATLAB script that executes Partition_ADG_UVVIS.m on one sample input of spectral a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) defined from 350 to 700 nm in 1 nm increments. The code implements the model with the predefined UVVIS spectral shape function library to determine partition input a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) into a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ) from 350 to 700 nm in 1 nm increments.

## Partition_ADG_UVVIS_Test_Run.xls:
Microsoft Excel spreadsheet containing the input and resulting output data obtained from the application of the Partition_ADG_UVVIS.m on one sample input of a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) to estimate a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ). The file is the original output file generated by Partition_ADG_UVVIS_Test.m.

## UVVIS_lib.mat:
Library of spectral shape functions defined in the near-UV through visible spectral region (from 350 to 700 nm with a 1 nm spectral interval). See the supporting publication (in prep) for further details about the formation of the library.

---

Contributors: Matthew Kehrli, Dariusz Stramski, Rick A. Reynolds, and Ishan Joshi\
Contacts: Matthew Kehrli (mdkehrli@ucsd.edu | mdkehrli@gmail.com), Dariusz Stramski (dstramski@ucsd.edu), Rick Reynolds(rreynolds@ucsd.edu), Ishan Joshi(isjoshi@ucsd.edu)\
Ocean Optics Research Laboratory, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego

---
